# bcmaps 1.0.2

* New helper function `show_cached_files()` to show the files that you have cached (and how much space they're taking up on your computer). (#92, #93)

# bcmaps 1.0.1
- When R version is >= 4.0, bcmaps will use `tools::R_user_dir("bcmaps",
"cache")` to determine the cache directory, while when R version is < 4.0, it
will use `rappdirs::user_cache_dir("bcmaps")`. This is to align with CRAN's
storage policy using the `tools` approach while maintaining backwards
compatibility with older R versions. Unfortunately this will require users who
updated to version 1.0 to re-download layers because we are caching layers in a
different location on your file system from that version. Users wishing to clear
the old cache location could run `bcmaps::delete_cache()` before updating to bcmaps 1.0.1.
(#83)
- `cded_raster` and `cded_stars` directly accepts a bounding box generated by `sf::st_bbox` as an aoi. (#87)
- Fixed a bug where bundled datasets (e.g., `mapsheets_50K()`, `mapsheets_250K()`) would not work if `sf` was linked to older GDAL/PROJ libraries due to different formats of coordinate reference systems. (#85)
- Added new census boundary layers: `census_dissemination_area()`, `census_metropolitan_area()`, `census_tract()` (#82).
- Add missing layers to `available_layers`


# bcmaps 1.0

- Drop dependency on {bcmapsdata} in favour of directly retrieving layers (where present) 
from the B.C. Data Catalogue (via {bcdata}) and storing in a local cache. Some additional 
layers are retrieved from Statistics Canada. 
- Some layers may not be identical to what was previously in {bcmaps}. For example `bc_neighbours` previously used data from Natural Earth. The availability of a Hi-Res B.C. boundaries over WFS from the B.C. Data Catalogue means that the layer can now be created directly by {bcmaps}.
- Added forward sortation area (`fsa`), health boundaries (`health_*`) and some census boundaries (`census_*`).
- Added ability to retrieve and cache CDED ([BC Digital Elevation Model](https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/digital-elevation-model-for-british-columbia-cded-1-250-000) data, returning either `stars` or `raster` objects (#73)
- Use of parallelism in functions that allow it (`raster_by_poly()` & 
`summarize_raster_list()`) is now reliant on users setting up their 
own `future::plan()` to specify strategy and number of workers, rather than setting
defaults (this is the best practice according to the author of the future package @HenrikBengtsson, #69)
- Fixed bug where errors would occur if a user's system GEOS was a development version (e.g., 3.9.0dev; #71)

# bcmaps 0.18.1

* Fixed an error where `fix_geo_problems()` would fail depending on the version 
of `GEOS` upon which `sf` was built.
* `raster_by_poly()` fails informatively when there are `NA` values in 
the column on which the polygons are to be split (#48, thanks @j-galloway)
* `raster_by_poly()` (and `summarize_raster_list()`) now uses the
[`future.apply`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=future.apply) package
for parallelism, enabling easy parallelization across platforms (#49)
* `get_layer()` (and in turn, any of the individual layer functions) now sets
the `crs` so the `crs` representation will always be up to date with the user's 
`sf` version (#51, https://github.com/r-spatial/sf/issues/1225)

# bcmaps 0.18.0
* Added `bc_neighbours()` function to call layers containing adjacent jurisdictions.
* Ensured the `geometry` column in all layers is consistently named `"geometry"` (Thanks @boshek)
* Moving sf package to Depends to take advantage of sf print methods.
* Added `bc_bbox()` to get a bounding box for British Columbia (#40).
* All references to external data package now point to `bcmapsdata` because of this R bug (https://bugs.r-project.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=17520)

# bcmaps v0.17.1
* Fixed an issue where `self_union()` would fail due to a change in the `raster` package (30cef3438)

# bcmaps 0.17.0
* Output of `available_layers()` has changed: `shortcut_function` column is now logical, uses better column names, and has a custom print function that gives more information. (#34)
* Add links to `combine_nr_rd()` function from `regional_districts()` and `municipalities()`. This function combines Regional Districts with the Northern Rockies Regional Municipalities to create a full provincial layer of 'Regional-District-like' polygons.
* Added Timber Supply Areas and BC cities shortcut function and to `available_layers()`
* `bec` (and other large downloadable layers) show up in the output of `available_layers()`, `bec()` works, and `get_layer("bec")` works so that getting downloadable datasets is indistinguishable from getting local datasets. (#32)
* Some utility functions use `sf` functions that have been moved to the `lwgeom` package. They now use the `lwgeom` function (Fixes CRAN CHECK NOTE; #33).
* Added new layer: `bc_cities()` which is a point layer of B.C.'s major cities.

# bcmaps 0.16.0
* First release to CRAN
* Added two new functions: `raster_by_poly` to overlay a SpatialPolygonsDataFrmae or sf polygons layer on a raster layer and clip the raster to each polygon, and `summarize_raster_list` to summarize the results of `raster_to_poly`

# bcmaps 0.15.1
* `get_layer()` now only accepts characters (#31)
* Fixes bug in `check_write_to_data_dir` where it was not creating data directory
* Update README installation instructions so that vignettes aren't built before bcmaps.rdata is installed (#29)


# bcmaps 0.15.0
* Added the ability to download Biogeoclimatic Zone map - as it was too big to 
fit in the bcmaps.rdata package, it is hosted as an asset on a GitHub release of bcmaps.rdata, 
and downloaded via the function `bec()`, which uses the new function `get_big_data()` (#28).
* Added function `bec_colours()` (and alias `bec_colors()`) to generate a vector of colours 
that match the standard colours used to colour Biogeoclimatic Zone maps.

# bcmaps 0.14.0
* Changed the lookup for exported objected to `getNamespaceExports("bcmaps")` so that you can 
call layers without loading the package via `bcmaps::`
* Removed `watersheds` layer from package
* Added `ecosections` to package

# bcmaps 0.13.0

This is a major new release with breaking changes. 

All data has been removed from the `bcmaps` package and moved to the `bcmaps.rdata` 
package, which is hosted on the bcgov drat repository: https://github.com/bcgov/drat. 
That package must be installed in order for `bcmaps` to access the data. It can 
be installed with: `install.packages('bcmaps.rdata', repos='https://bcgov.github.io/drat/')`

In previous versions of `bcmaps`, data was stored in the package and loaded by 
calling `data("layername")` or simply `layername` (e.g., `data("bc_bound")` or `bc_bound`).

Now loading data requires a function call - either using a shortcut function that
is the same name as the dataset (e.g., `bc_bound()` whereas previously one would 
simply use `bc_bound`). Alternatively, one can use the `get_layer()` function 
(e.g., `get_layer("bc_bound")`).

Another major change is that all the layers are now returned as `sf` classes by 
default, rather than `Spatial` classes. `Spatial` versions of the data can still be
obtained by setting the `class` argument to `"sp"` in `get_layer()` and the shortcut
functions (E.g., `bc_bound(class = "sp")` or `get_layer("bc_bound", class = "sp")`).

# bcmaps 0.12.0

* Added `wsc_drainages`

# bcmaps 0.11.0

* Added `hydrozones` dataset.

# bcmaps 0.10.1

* Fixed ring self-intersections in `bc_bound_hres` and `airzones` (#13)

# bcmaps 0.10.0

* Added `water_districts` and `water_precincts` datasets.

# bcmaps 0.9.0

* Added `gw_aquifers` dataset.

# bcmaps 0.8.2

* Added a `tries` argument to `fix_geo_problems` function to set the maximum number of iterations it should go through in attempting to repair topological issues.

# bcmaps 0.8.1

* Set character encoding of `watercourses_15M` and `watercourses_5M` datasets to UTF-8.

# bcmaps 0.8.0

* Added `watercourses_15M` and `watercourses_5M` datasets.

# bcmaps 0.7.1

* `fix_geo_problems` and `transform_bc_albers` are Generic functions with methods for `sf` objects as well as `Spatial` objects
* `fix_self_intersect` is now defunct

# bcmaps 0.6.2

* `fix_self_intersect` has been renamed to `fix_geo_problems` (but kept as an alias for now)
* `fix_geo_problems` can often also fix orphaned holes in addition to self-intersections.

# bcmaps 0.6.0

* Added `watersheds` dataset (#15, @markjohnsonubc)
* Added a `NEWS.md` file to track changes to the package.

# bcmaps 0.5.0

Added two new functions to create and work with SpatailPolygonsDataFrames with nested data frames:

- `self_union` performs a union on a single `SpatialPolygons*` object to take into account overlaps. Polygon attributes are combined in a nested dataframe.
- `get_poly_attribute` allows you to easily parse a nested data frame column (created by `self_union`) to extract or calculate the attributes you want

# bcmaps 0.4.0

Added a couple of convenience functions:

- `transform_bc_albers()` transforms a Spatial object to BC Albers projection
- `fix_self_intersect()` checks for and repairs self-intersecting polygons

# bcmaps 0.3.0

Added 3 Natural Resource layers (areas, regions and districts)

# bcmaps 0.2.0

Added high resolution BC boundaries (`bc_bound_hres`)

# bcmaps 0.1.0

Added `bc_area` function
